In today’s business world, customer loyalty is one of the most important challenge for companies, especially in the e-commerce area. Every company tries to identify customer behavior and invests a lot in retaining customers. Churn, being the rate at which customers stop using a company's products or services, is an issue that is of ultimate concern. Research has shown that retaining customers is more cost-effective and profitable than acquiring new ones.

This project uses real-world data to develop a churn prediction model for an e-commerce company. It contains customer behavior and demographic information that provides insight into which customers are likely to churn. The machine learning models using this dataset will apply logistic regression and random forest methods to predict the instances of customer churn. Logistic regression can be used to estimate the probability of a particular case of customer churn, whereas with Random Forest, it is possible to map more complex interactions of customer attributes and make more exact predictions.
While applying machine learning models to the dataset some steps will be applied to understand better the feature's impact to decision making process. First of all, in this process, data exploration should be done, identification of types of data, cleaning, and encoding of features where necessary. The next steps will involve the implementation of machine learning models, their performance evaluation using various metrics, and recommending the best model for the task at hand. 

The results that we have after analyzing the models, can then go directly into the company's decision-making process by helping the management decide on the level of personalized marketing campaigns, loyalty programs, or targeted promotions necessary to retain high-risk customers. This paper therefore aims at translating predictive insights into actionable business strategies that reduce churn and improve customer retention.

Eventually, this analysis will give the company the basis to make more smart, data-driven decisions, enabling the company to be proactive in lowering churn and therefore enhancing customer satisfaction for even better business performance.
